=head1 NAME

Net::Statsd - Perl client for Etsy's statsd daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Configure where to send events
    # That's where your statsd daemon is listening.
    $Net::Statsd::HOST = 'localhost';    # Default
    $Net::Statsd::PORT = 8125;           # Default

    #
    # Keep track of events as counters
    #
    Net::Statsd::increment('site.logins');
    Net::Statsd::increment('database.connects');

    #
    # Log timing of events, ex. db queries
    #
    use Time::HiRes;
    my $start_time = [ Time::HiRes::gettimeofday ];

    # do the complex database query
    Net::Statsd::timing(
        'database.complexquery',
        Time::HiRes::tv_interval($start_time)
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implement a UDP client for the B<statsd> statistics
collector daemon in use at Etsy.com.

You want to use this module to track statistics in your Perl
application, such as how many times a certain event occurs
(user logins in a web application, or database queries issued),
or you want to time and then graph how long certain events take,
like database queries execution time or time to download a
certain file, etc...

If you're uncertain whether you'd want to use this module or
statsd, then you can read some background information here:

    http://codeascraft.etsy.com/2011/02/15/measure-anything-measure-everything/

The github repository for statsd is:

    http://github.com/etsy/statsd

By default the client will try to send statistic metrics to
C<localhost:8125>, but you can change the default hostname and port
with:

    $Net::Statsd::HOST = 'your.statsd.hostname.net';
    $Net::Statsd::PORT = 9999;

just after including the C<Net::Statsd> module.

=head1 FUNCTIONS


=cut

=head2 C<timing($stat, $time, $sample_rate = 1)>

Log timing information.
Time is assumed to be in milliseconds (ms).

    Net::Statsd::timing('some.time', 500);


=cut

=head2 C<increment($stats, $sample_rate=1)>

Increments one or more stats counters

    # +1 on 'some.int'
    Net::Statsd::increment('some.int');

    # 0.5 = 50% sampling
    Net::Statsd::increment('some.int', 0.5);

To increment more than one counter at a time,
you can B<pass an array reference>:

    Net::Statsd::increment(['grue.dinners', 'room.lamps'], 1);

B<You can also use "inc()" instead of "increment()" to type less>.


=cut

=head2 C<decrement($stats, $sample_rate=1)>

Same as increment, but decrements. Yay.

    Net::Statsd::decrement('some.int')

B<You can also use "dec()" instead of "decrement()" to type less>.


=cut

=head2 C<update_stats($stats, $delta=1, $sample_rate=1)>

Updates one or more stats counters by arbitrary amounts

    Net::Statsd::update_stats('some.int', 10)

equivalent to:

    Net::Statsd::update_stats('some.int', 10, 1)

A sampling rate less than 1 means only update the stats
every x number of times (0.1 = 10% of the times).


=cut

=head2 C<_sample_data(\%data, $sample_rate = 1)>

B<This method is used internally, it's not part of the public interface.>

Takes care of transforming a hash of metrics data into
a B<sampled> hash of metrics data, according to the given
C<$sample_rate>.

If C<$sample_rate == 1>, then sampled data is exactly the
incoming data.

If C<$sample_rate = 0.2>, then every metric value will be I<marked>
with the given sample rate, so the Statsd server will automatically
scale it. For example, with a sample rate of 0.2, the metric values
will be multiplied by 5.


=cut

=head2 C<send(\%data, $sample_rate = 1)>

Squirt the metrics over UDP.

    Net::Statsd::send({ 'some.int' => 1 });


=cut

